docs: add Coder Desktop stale-tunnel recovery and improve macOS log capture (#26735)
coder/coder: docs/user-guides/desktop/index.md

- Check system permissions for network extensions
- Ensure only one copy of Coder Desktop is installed

> ### Recovering from a stale tunnel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Recover from a stale tunnel
```

No gerund headings.

If the menu bar or tray shows **Coder Connect** as enabled but workspaces are
unreachable (SSH hangs, `workspace.coder` fails to resolve, or file sync cannot
list the workspace directory), the embedded tunnel may be in a stale state.
Restarting the helper components in place usually clears it without a reboot.

<div class="tabs">

#### macOS

Run the following commands in a terminal. These steps leave the app and helper

> daemon installed; they only restart the running tunnel and flush DNS caches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following commands in a terminal.
These steps leave the app and helper daemon installed.
They only restart the running tunnel and flush DNS caches.
```

Minimize semicolon usage, and prefer one sentence per line instead of a hard wrap at 72 characters.

1. Stop the Coder VPN configuration:

    ```shell
    vpn_name=$(scutil --nc list | grep "com.coder.Coder-Desktop" | awk -F'"' '{print $2}' | tail -n1)

>     if [ -n "$vpn_name" ]; then scutil --nc stop "$vpn_name"; fi

Reviewer 2: This does the same thing as toggling off Coder Connect in the UI

Reviewer 3: @ethanndickson agreed, it's just additional documentation to do the same thing via the CLI.

    ```

2. Quit the Coder Desktop app:

    ```shell
    osascript -e 'tell application id "com.coder.Coder-Desktop" to quit'
    ```

3. Restart the helper daemon in place:

    ```shell
    sudo launchctl kickstart -k system/com.coder.Coder-Desktop.Helper
    ```

    > [!WARNING]
    > Do not use `launchctl bootout` here. `bootout` removes the daemon from
    > launchd's system domain entirely, and relaunching the app does not

>     > re-bootstrap it. Use `kickstart -k` to restart it in place.

Reviewer 2: Restarting the helper shouldn't be necessary, has this been observed to actually resolve the issue, or was this just suggested by blink?

Reviewer 3: @ethanndickson This has not been observed to resolve the issue, it's just documenting the restart process and related subprocesses without having to restart a laptop/workstation.

4. Flush DNS caches:

    ```shell
    sudo dscacheutil -flushcache
    sudo killall -HUP mDNSResponder
    ```

5. Confirm the stale tunnel is gone (the command should print nothing):

    ```shell
    scutil --nc list | grep "com.coder.Coder-Desktop"
    ```

6. Relaunch **Coder Desktop** from your Applications folder and toggle
   **Coder Connect** back on.

To verify the tunnel is healthy after relaunching, query the built-in sentinel
hostname against Coder Desktop's embedded DNS server:

```shell
dig @fd60:627a:a42b::53 AAAA is.coder--connect--enabled--right--now.coder +short
dscacheutil -q host -a name is.coder--connect--enabled--right--now.coder
```

Both commands should return an `fd60:627a:a42b::/48` address. If `dig` returns
nothing or `dscacheutil` reports no entries, Coder Connect is not publishing

> DNS. Collect logs (see below) and file an issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both commands should return an `fd60:627a:a42b::/48` address.
If `dig` returns nothing or `dscacheutil` reports no entries, Coder Connect is not publishing DNS.
[Collect logs](#collect-logs) and file an issue.
```

Terms like "see" could be viewed as non-inclusive. Better to link directly to the section in question.

#### Windows

Run the following in an **elevated PowerShell** session. The service restart
clears the embedded DNS state; the NRPT and adapter checks confirm the system

> routing policy is intact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following in an **elevated PowerShell** session.
The service restart clears the embedded DNS state.
The NRPT and adapter checks confirm the system routing policy is intact.
```

    Stop-Service -Name "Coder Desktop" -Force
    ```

2. Flush DNS caches:

    ```powershell
    ipconfig /flushdns
    Clear-DnsClientCache
    ```

3. Start the service again and relaunch the app:

    ```powershell
    Start-Service -Name "Coder Desktop"
    Start-Process "C:\Program Files\Coder Desktop\CoderDesktop.exe"
    ```

4. After re-enabling Coder Connect in the tray, verify the NRPT rule and the
   Wintun adapter exist:

    ```powershell
    Get-DnsClientNrptRule | Where-Object { $_.Namespace -like "*.coder" }
    Get-NetAdapter | Where-Object { $_.InterfaceDescription -like "*Wintun*" }
    ```

    If either command returns nothing while Coder Connect shows as enabled,
    the tunnel did not finish coming up. Disable and re-enable the toggle, or
    repeat the steps above.

> [!NOTE]
> `ipconfig /flushdns` does not reset Coder Desktop's embedded DNS resolver;
> restarting the service is what clears its internal cache. If you are running
> a network filtering agent (for example, Zscaler), it may shadow `.coder`
> lookups even after the tunnel comes back. Check with your IT team if DNS
> still fails after a clean restart.

</div>

> ### Collecting Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Collect logs
```

- Check system permissions for network extensions
- Ensure only one copy of Coder Desktop is installed

### Recover from a stale tunnel

If the menu bar or tray shows **Coder Connect** as enabled but workspaces are
unreachable (SSH hangs, `workspace.coder` fails to resolve, or file sync cannot
list the workspace directory), the embedded tunnel may be in a stale state.

> Restarting the helper components in place usually clears it without a reboot.

Reviewer: Are there cases where a restart won't clear it without a reboot? Optional suggestion:

```suggestion
Restart the helper components first.
If that doesn't resolve the issue, reboot your computer.
```

These steps leave the app and helper daemon installed.
They only restart the running tunnel and flush DNS caches.

1. Stop the Coder VPN configuration:

    ```shell
    vpn_name=$(scutil --nc list | grep "com.coder.Coder-Desktop" | awk -F'"' '{print $2}' | tail -n1)
    if [ -n "$vpn_name" ]; then scutil --nc stop "$vpn_name"; fi
    ```

2. Quit the Coder Desktop app:

    ```shell
    osascript -e 'tell application id "com.coder.Coder-Desktop" to quit'
    ```

3. Restart the helper daemon in place:

    ```shell
    sudo launchctl kickstart -k system/com.coder.Coder-Desktop.Helper
    ```

    > [!WARNING]
    > Do not use `launchctl bootout` here. `bootout` removes the daemon from
    > launchd's system domain entirely, and relaunching the app does not
    > re-bootstrap it. Use `kickstart -k` to restart it in place.

4. Flush DNS caches:

    ```shell
    sudo dscacheutil -flushcache
    sudo killall -HUP mDNSResponder
    ```

5. Confirm the stale tunnel is gone (the command should print nothing):

    ```shell
    scutil --nc list | grep "com.coder.Coder-Desktop"
    ```

6. Relaunch **Coder Desktop** from your Applications folder and toggle

>    **Coder Connect** back on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Relaunch **Coder Desktop** from your `/Applications` folder and toggle **Coder Connect** back on.
```

To verify the tunnel is healthy after relaunching, query the built-in sentinel
hostname against Coder Desktop's embedded DNS server:

```shell
dig @fd60:627a:a42b::53 AAAA is.coder--connect--enabled--right--now.coder +short
dscacheutil -q host -a name is.coder--connect--enabled--right--now.coder
```

Both commands should return an `fd60:627a:a42b::/48` address.
If `dig` returns nothing or `dscacheutil` reports no entries, Coder Connect is not publishing DNS.
[Collect logs](#collect-logs) and file an issue.

#### Windows

Run the following in an **elevated PowerShell** session.
The service restart clears the embedded DNS state.
The NRPT and adapter checks confirm the system routing policy is intact.

1. Stop the app and the VPN service:

>     ```powershell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```ps1
```

    Get-Process -Name "Coder Desktop" -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue | Stop-Process -Force
    Stop-Service -Name "Coder Desktop" -Force
    ```

2. Flush DNS caches:

>     ```powershell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```ps1
```

    ipconfig /flushdns
    Clear-DnsClientCache
    ```

3. Start the service again and relaunch the app:

>     ```powershell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```ps1
```

    Start-Service -Name "Coder Desktop"
    Start-Process "C:\Program Files\Coder Desktop\CoderDesktop.exe"
    ```

4. After re-enabling Coder Connect in the tray, verify the NRPT rule and the

>    Wintun adapter exist:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. After re-enabling Coder Connect in the tray, verify the NRPT rule and the Wintun adapter exist:
```

>     ```powershell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```ps1
```

1. Export the unified logs for the last hour with the `log` command:

    ```sh
    log show --predicate 'subsystem BEGINSWITH "com.coder.Coder-Desktop"' \
      --info --debug --last 1h > ~/Desktop/coder-desktop.log
    ```

    The `BEGINSWITH` predicate captures the app, the helper daemon, and the
    network extension, which all log under subsystems prefixed with
    `com.coder.Coder-Desktop`. Adjust `--last` (e.g. `30m`, `2h`, `1d`) to
    cover the time the issue occurred.

>     To watch the logs live while reproducing an issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can stream the logs live while reproducing an issue:
```

Nit: "watch" is a similar pet peeve for me as "see" for sighted individuals.
